---
layout: post
title: "#100DaysOfCode - Day 52: Crunch Time!"
date: 2020-12-15
permalink: /100Days/:slug
categories: [100Days, Tech]
---

Hiya!

Tonight, I'm working to make sure that all my code is good to go for a project. I'll be deploying code I've been working on for a while, and I'm aiming to have fully wrapped up tonight. It's both an exciting, as well as a nervous time, as it seems to be a pretty hard deadline - I'll be working on other things after pushing, and any time I need to use to come back to these features I've developed would sort of be wasted.

This definitely reminds me of back in the day when I was working on my C++ projects in [Dr. Buell's](https://twitter.com/DuncanBuell) "Intro to Software Engineering". In that class, I'd always think that I have a solid approach to the problem, so I'd put off the actual code work until a few days, or even, the night before. When it came down to actually doing the development, it always turned out to be a bit more complicated than I had anticipated or mapped out.

I like to think that I've learned my lesson from those days, as I'm actively working on things through-out the day. At this point in my workflow as a developer, I think my biggest issue is just giving time estimates for my work. I definitely think I've given reasonable (or even good timelines), but I think I should likely try to anticipate some of the problems I may not be aware of at the time into my timelines.

My brother likes to say his motto is "Under promise, over deliver". While I don't think that's a great strategy for me (I like being able to strive for things and deadlines help me), it's still something I could try to adopt (at least a bit :smiley:).

Happy Coding, folks!

~Moxnr
