---
layout: post
title: "#100DaysOfCode - Day 21: Taking a Step Back on Personal Projects"
date: 2020-11-12
permalink: /100Days/:slug
categories: [100Days, Tech, .NET]
---

Hello, and happy Thursday ya'll! Today, I didn't really work on any personal projects, but I am very fortunate to be celebrating my 2 month anniversary with my wife, [Ann-Marie](https://twitter.com/amtisawesome), and I had spent a majority of the day doing development at work, so there's always that.

While there's no visible updates for the blog here today, feel free to check-out yesterday's post, where I gave a quick update on the progress of the [GitHub - SecretSanta (in Blazor)](https://github.com/mochsner/Blazor) project that I'm working on. From looking at the post now, I'll definitely plan to loop back and make sure that the CSS (styles) for my blog page shows up a bit better - images definitely shouldn't extend beyond the text width on mobile.

If you'd like to check out Blazor (what I'm using in my app), I'd also like to point out that there's (2) versions, and I'm using _Blazor Server_
- Blazor Server: C# code is allowed on HTML / front-end files, and does the rendering before serving to the end-user. This allows things like easily querying a database directly from a page, which is useful for small, quick to deploy applications or pages. 
- Blazor Web Assembly: C# code is compiled into Web Assembly, which is ultimately ran on the end-device. In my opinion, this is the _really cool_ technology here, since it's doing a similar thing as TypeScript would for Angular/React, but in C# (meaning less languages to learn). I'm definitely questioning how difficult this is to debug, though.

Anyways, that's really all I have for today - I'll be sure to have some good updates for the blog over the weekend!

Happy Coding!

@[Moxnr](https://twitter.com/moxnr)
