---
layout: post
title: "100DaysOfCode"
date: 2019-06-10
share: twitter
---
I've been telling myself that I'm going to spend more time coding, but it's hard to make the time for working on code when you work with computers all day. So, I'm deciding to force it upon myself to code for 100 days straight. No matter how much or how little I do, I'm going to be doing something to advance my software development skills, whether it be learning a new editor, language/framework, or architecting some infrastructure in the cloud to make use the fun stuff I'm building. 

I plan to spend most of the front half of these 100 days working on this blog, with vim to see how I can improve my workflows through it. Admittedly, I have a LONG ways to go before I'm competent enough to match my speed with other editors... either way, you can track my notes in [http://github.com/mochsner/.vim](mochsner/.vim), where I'll be documentating things that I learn, as well as files for my vim customizations. I expect to spend much of this journey just learning about vim, so apologies if there isn't enough actual "code" in this round of #100DaysOfCode.I normally use VS Code, so I'll also be using the VSCodeVim [plugin](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=vscodevim.vim) as well.

Anyways, here's to an exciting (& busy) time of the year - happy coding!

2019.06.10: Play the VIM game; start RSS feed for Jekyll blog; discuss code idea with Ann-Marie (calendar).
2019.06.11: Researched RSS feed for jekyll blog, including tags feature for share: twitter feature
