---
layout: post
title: "#100DaysOfCode - Day 3: .NET Identity"
date: 2020-10-25
permalink: /100Days/:slug
categories: [100Days, Tech, Open-Source]
---

## Plan

Today, I had planned to do some .NET work on a [project](https://github.com/mochsner/DutchTreat/) I'd created a few weeks ago to in a tutorial. Shawn Wildermuth has a great [PluralSight course](https://app.pluralsight.com/library/courses/aspnetcore-mvc-efcore-bootstrap-angular-web/table-of-contents) on .NET Core MVC, and there was a bug (on the front-end JS side, as well as security/auth wise) that I wanted to work through in order to make sure it's working on my current version.

## Decision

After stepping out for a while during the day, I decided that I'd be much happier if I were to be able to run this code on my personal PopOS laptop, as I've been using Linux for a while and really like the JetBrains software used for C# development. While most of my experience is in C# and the .NET (or Microsoft) side of things, I'm really passionate about open-source, so I want to be a part of the effort to help move a lot of Microsoft technologies to be hosted on Linux (which is WAY better and cheaper long-term, in terms of costs). From 2+ years of server administration in a scalable environment on the Microsoft side of things, I've just found that Windows servers aren't very good at interfacing with various technologies, such as Puppet/Ansible. That, and of course, containers are definitely nice for cloud-based solutions, to make things a bit more scalable. `

## Work

In setting things up locally, I've definitely hit some hurtles so far. Installing Entity Framework, SQL server, and everything was pretty seamless. Finding some of the packages was a bit of an effort, but that goes for all cases - even installing on Windows. I documented much of the process for the installs here in the Github Repo [mochsner/DutchTreat](https://github.com/mochsner/DutchTreat).

    I run into some trouble trying to get SQL server tools installed, so I'll be sure to follow-up on those issues to make working with SQL easier down the road.

    I'm thinking this may be related to Ubuntu 20.04 support (still a new distro), but haven't spent the time to find anything conclusive.

    Error:
    ```bash
    mochsner@pop-os:/etc/apt/sources.list.d$ sudo ACCEPT_EULA=Y apt install mssql-tools unixodbc-dev
    Reading package lists... Done
    Building dependency tree
    Reading state information... Done
    Some packages could not be installed. This may mean that you have
    requested an impossible situation or if you are using the unstable
    distribution that some required packages have not yet been created
    or been moved out of Incoming.
    The following information may help to resolve the situation:
    
    The following packages have unmet dependencies:
     mssql-tools : Depends: msodbcsql17 (>= 17.3.0.0) but it is not going to be installed
     unixodbc-dev : Depends: unixodbc (= 2.3.7)
    E: Unable to correct problems, you have held broken packages.
    ```

~ Moxnr
