---
layout: post
title: "#100DaysOfCode - Day 2: DevFestWI"
date: 2020-10-24
permalink: /100Days/:slug
categories: [100Days, Tech]
---
It's the weekend, and I'm excited to be watching the keynote/intro for DevFestWi](https://devfestwi.com) with @meliss_houghton](https://melissahoughton.github.io). She spoke about Imposters syndrome, which I've definitely felt like I had in my previous role in Systems Engineering, as I was put in more of leadership roles towards the end of my 2 years at Epic. She had a great article on the matter as well, which you can check out [here](https://melissahoughton.dev/2020/02/22/impostor-syndrome.html).

Another talk that really resonated with me today was by Karthin Rohrmeier, who presented on why language matters
    Words Matter: Communication, speech, is an action and all actions have consequences
    - What we say effects people
    Word is Bond: what we say binds us. It binds us to what we said as the sayer, as well as to who we are by the hearer.

    Language is a Technology, and it is biased. 
    """
    Language is not a neutral medium that can be simply appropriated by a speaker; it comes to us populated with the intentions in which it has lived it's socially-charged life
    """

    Mekka Okereke, on building inclusive engineering teams, decsibesd "Culture is nothing more than the set of behaviors that are rewards and punished."
    - What doesn't get punished is a bias.

    Language is Power
    - Language shapes reality

[![Sitting in on DevFestWI LiveStream]](./img/20201024153605.png)

    How has languages been used:
    - In genocide
    - To colonize people (the handmaids tale)
    - To opress people
    - To control people
    - To other people

    1978 - native american parents gained the legal right to prevent the placement of their children in the Indian Boarding Schools.
    "Indian Boarding School policy expressly indented to implement 



    


During today's [talks](https://devfestwi.com/schedule/), I'm looking at the best ways to link out to hook up to development Twitter, so that any links I upload will have some sort of traceability. I got the idea from Melissa's website, which seems to do something similar using `?ref_url` querystrings at the end of any twitter links. It looks fairly easy to embed tweets as well, so I may look at the idea of doing something like that down the road.

There may be a variety of other things I want to add in as well, so expect an update to this post later today!

~ Moxnr
