---
layout: post
title: "#100DaysOfCode - Day 43: Angular Material Nav. Bar"
date: 2020-12-04
permalink: /100Days/:slug
categories: [100Days, Tech]
---

Today, it's been quite a day (got to spend a large part of it in the hospital), so there's nothing really new I'll really be able to focus on today. Fortunately, I was able to get AngularJS snippets to load into the blog posts yesterday, and I wanted to use today's post to show you all what it looks like to use the Angular Material's "autocomplete" feature.

It's a really nifty tool, because it's sort of a combination between a drop-down (with pre-defined options), and a textbox (with free text). The hybrid approach lets you use it for a field that's meant to be standardized, but may be easier to type, and may need to be continually edited.

I'd definitely recommend searching for things that don't exist (you'll see an option to add it), do exist (you can scroll, use arrows, or swipe on mobile), and decide for yourself if you like this form of input!

<html markdown="0">
<script>
    angular.module('myApp').controller('DemoCtrl', function ($scope, $timeout, $q, $log) {
			var self = this;

			self.simulateQuery = false;
			self.isDisabled    = false;

			// list of `state` value/display objects
			self.states        = loadAll();
			self.querySearch   = querySearch;
			self.selectedItemChange = selectedItemChange;
			self.searchTextChange   = searchTextChange;

			self.newState = newState;

			function newState(state) {
				alert("This triggered a function, which passes what you submitted (" + state + "), and can ultimately be added to the list of options you see (unfortunately, I'm unable to do that on a static blog)");
			}

			// ******************************
			// Internal methods
			// ******************************

			/**
			 * Search for states... use $timeout to simulate
			 * remote dataservice call.
			 */
			function querySearch (query) {
				var results = query ? self.states.filter(createFilterFor(query)) : self.states,
						deferred;
				if (self.simulateQuery) {
					deferred = $q.defer();
					$timeout(function () { deferred.resolve(results); }, Math.random() * 1000, false);
					return deferred.promise;
				} else {
					return results;
				}
			}

			function searchTextChange(text) {
				$log.info('Text changed to ' + text);
			}

			function selectedItemChange(item) {
				$log.info('Item changed to ' + JSON.stringify(item));
			}

			/**
			 * Build `states` list of key/value pairs
			 */
			function loadAll() {
				var allStates = 'Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware,\
								Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana,\
								Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana,\
								Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina,\
								North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina,\
								South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Vermont, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia,\
								Wisconsin, Wyoming';

				return allStates.split(/, +/g).map(function (state) {
					return {
						value: state.toLowerCase(),
						display: state
					};
				});
			}

			/**
			 * Create filter function for a query string
			 */
			function createFilterFor(query) {
				var lowercaseQuery = query.toLowerCase();

				return function filterFn(state) {
					return (state.value.indexOf(lowercaseQuery) === 0);
				};
			}
		}
	);
    </script>

<div ng-controller="DemoCtrl as ctrl" ng-cloak="" class="autocompletedemoBasicUsage" ng-app="MyApp">
  <md-content class="md-padding">
    <form ng-submit="$event.preventDefault()">
      <p id="autocompleteDescription">
        Use <code>md-autocomplete</code> to search for matches from local or remote data sources.
      </p>
      <label id="favoriteStateLabel">Favorite State</label>
      <md-autocomplete ng-disabled="ctrl.isDisabled" md-no-cache="ctrl.noCache" md-selected-item="ctrl.selectedItem" md-search-text-change="ctrl.searchTextChange(ctrl.searchText)" md-search-text="ctrl.searchText" md-selected-item-change="ctrl.selectedItemChange(item)" md-items="item in ctrl.querySearch(ctrl.searchText)" md-item-text="item.display" md-min-length="0" placeholder="Ex. Alaska" input-aria-labelledby="favoriteStateLabel">
        <md-item-template>
          <span md-highlight-text="ctrl.searchText" md-highlight-flags="^i">{{item.display}}</span>
        </md-item-template>
        <md-not-found>
          No states matching "{{ctrl.searchText}}" were found.
          <a ng-click="ctrl.newState(ctrl.searchText)">Create a new one!</a>
        </md-not-found>
      </md-autocomplete>
      <br>
      <md-checkbox ng-model="ctrl.simulateQuery">Simulate query for results?</md-checkbox>
      <md-checkbox ng-model="ctrl.noCache">Disable caching of queries?</md-checkbox>
      <md-checkbox ng-model="ctrl.isDisabled">Disable the input?</md-checkbox>
      <p id="autocompleteDetailedDescription">
        By default, <code>md-autocomplete</code> will cache results when performing a query.
        After the initial call is performed, it will use the cached results to eliminate unnecessary
        server requests or lookup logic. This can be disabled above.
      </p>
    </form>
  </md-content>
</div>

</html>
Happy coding!

~ Moxnr

