---
layout: post
title: "#100DaysOfCode - Day 17: NETCore and Blazor using JetBrains Rider on Linux!"
date: 2020-11-08
permalink: /100Days/:slug
categories: [100Days, Tech, .NET]
---

Happy Saturday! It looks like an exciting day today, with 70 degree weather in Madison WI, news outlets calling the U.S. Presidential Election, and me getting to work on a fun .NET Core application I'm working on for a secret santa application we're using with friends! If you have any particular features or ideas (whether participating in Secret Santa or not), feel free to leave a comment below!

As noted in yesterday's post, I have outlined the following tasks 

    _REQUIRED_
    - [ ] At runtime, input a list of the users and communicate (email?) out to those users their information
      - Will allow emailing out (manually) a username/password, if needed, due to spam filters
    - [ ] Create links associated with your profile (e.g. Items), with a price associator, to share with the 'Secret' Santa.

    _OPTIONAL_
    - [ ] Ability to be able to communicate between users (e.g. e-mail or text) / Anonymous chat functionality
mochsn
    _DELIGHTERS_
    - [ ] Decent UI/UX
    - [ ] Ability for others to reuse this deployment on same instance
    - [ ] Ability for other developers to easily deploy and use this code

In researching and following a tutorial on .NET Blazor (a shiny new technology that allows writing C# for the front-end) today, I'm still trying to figure out how to design this application. I'm very used to requirements being defined by end-users or management, so this is definitely something new to me where I get to define everything. 

Does it make more sense to do all the authentication involved to login for functionality, or does it make more sense to depend on e-mails (can be iffy due to spam, particularly gmail which often blocks things before they even get to spam). Well, today, I will be finding out!

In terms of implementation, I'd  also listed out some of the technologies that I'm leaning towards. 

Since some quick research this morning, I'm committing to the following:
  -  .NET Core (MVC and Blazor)
  - SQLite for Database
  - No front-end frameworks (yet)
    - I'll depend on my wife for working on making anything look good - she's surprisingly good with CSS!

Happy Coding!

@[Moxnr](https://twitter.com/moxnr)
