---
layout: post
title: "#100DaysOfCode - Day 38: Avent(ures) in AngularJS!"
date: 2020-11-29
permalink: /100Days/:slug
categories: [100Days, Tech]
---

Happy first day of Advent (for those who celebrate Jesus' birth) today! I, for one, am really digging the holidays this year because I know that my wife and I will be spending Christmas with eachother. It's particularly special this year, as she's almost weeks pregnant, and this may very likely be our first (and last) Christmas alone for a _long time_! It's also our first Christmas as a married couple, so I'm really excited to be able to celebrate our commitment to eachother as well.

I'll digress from that for now, and just wanted to get a quick update in on what I've been working on. Today, I've been doing a dive into AngularJS classic. Whilst it's something I've used fluidly and was once comfortable with, I've found that the more I work with it in a complex project, the less I really know it fluently. In an attempt to re-familiarize myself with it, I've enrolled in [AngularJS Fundamentals](https://app.pluralsight.com/library/courses/angularjs-fundamentals/table-of-contents), with my code hosted at [mochsner/AngularFundamentalsFiles](https://github.com/mochsner/AngularFundamentalsFiles).

So far, I've covered the first 5 chapters:
1. Overview
2. Introduction to Angular
3. Angular Controllers & Markup
4. Creating and Using Angular Services
5. Angular Routing

Tomorrow, I'll be completing the rest:
6. Creating Custom Angular Directives (1h 16m)
7. Testing Angular (1h 29m)

I'll likely be doing one more pluralsight AngularJS in depth course, before starting to look at implementing it further in our [secretsanta](https://secretsanta.ochsners.us) Blazor application, then upgrading to Angular 2.X+ (in typescript).

Happy coding!

~ Moxnr
