---
layout: post
title: "What I read in 2021"
date: 2021-12-31
share:
  - twitter
  - mastodon
---

I've realized, from my time spent in college reading myself out of a bad pathway in life, that books really do a lot to shape us as human beings. Yet, I don't really know a majority of the books the people around me have read, or are reading. So, in response to that issue, I decided I want to share what I read with others, year after year. If you want to know why I've changed this year, either for better, for worse, for weirder, or for cooler -- just read these posts. 

I've started with a list, and then picked a few books (by category) to reflect on.

### List

##### Read by end 2021:

| Title                        | Author                       | Format  |
| ---------------------------- | ---------------------------- | ------- |
| The Pragramatic Programmer   | David Thomas, Andrew Hunt    | Kindle  |
| The Calculating Stars        | Mary Robinette Kowal         | Kindle  |
| Babywise                     | Gary Ezzo; Robert Bucknam MD | Book    |
| The Expanse: Tiamat's Wrath  | James S. Corey               | Kindle  |
| The Prodigal God             | Timothy Keller               | Kindle  |
| The Expanse: Auberon         | James S. Corey               | Kindle  |
| 12 Rules for Life            | Jordan B. Peterson           | Audible |
| The Expanse: Babylon's Ashes | James S. Corey               | Kindle  |
| Atomic Habits                | James Clear                  | Audible |
| Educated: A Memoir           | Tara Westover                | Audible |
| Extreme Ownership            | Jocko Willink, Leif Babin    | Audible |
| The Decision                 | Kevin Hart                   | Audible |

##### Partially read by end 2021:

| Title                                 | Author                      | Format  |
| ------------------------------------- | --------------------------- | ------- |
| Saving Your Marriage Before it Starts | Les Parrott; Leslie Parrott | Kindle  |
| The Reason for God (Timothy Keller)   | Timothy Keller              | Kindle  |
| Digital Minimalism                    | Cal Newport                 | Audible |

### Reflection 

Whether books help me to grow physically, logically, emotionally, creatively, there's no question that they impact me fairly directly, and as we end 2021, I wanted to talk about some of these books.

### Ethos (appealed most to Ethics)
In terms of the book that I think has reshaped my perspective the most this year, I'll have to go with [The Prodigal God], by Timothy Keller. For a Christian book, it gives a perspective that a lot of non-christian folks would appreciate. It doesn't focus on Jesus, and it doesn't focus on the truth of the Bible. Rather, it focuses on a story that highlights being authentic, and notes how important it is to be authentic in your actions. Often times, it's the motive, not the action, that matters more. 

### Logos (appealed most to Logic)
In terms of the book that has helped me find balance this year, I'll have to go with [12 Rules for Life] by Jordan B. Peterson. I listened to this book on audio, and it was generally just a fantastic listen that made great points on how to live a life well. Whether it was nudging me to only compare me to me (yesterday), to be precise in speech, to not lie or criticize, pursue meaning, or to be kind - all good advice. What was particularly impressive about this book was the reasoning behind it all, too. So, if you want to listen for 90 minutes as to why you should (metaphorically) pet a cat when you see one in the street, this book is a good one. 

- Runner up: Atomic Habits

### Pathos (appealed most to Emotion)

As an emotional read, [Educated: A Memoir]() by Tara Westover was riveting. This book was an absolute roller coaster, but in a good way. Seeing Tara Westover's life growing up in a secluded Mormon family in Buck's peak of Idaho was quite the story, and I didn't really know what to expect when I started this on my solo road trip down to Columbia SC. As a Mormon, Tara had a life that was infinitely more complex than anything I could've ever imagined. In the end, it was also quite inspiring.