---
layout: post
title: "#100DaysOfCode - C# External Library Testing with .NET Interactive Prompt (Newtonsoft.Json)"
date: 2021-08-13
permalink: /100Days/:slug
share:
  - twitter
categories:
  - 100Days
  - CSharp
  - JSON
  - WebApi
  - Logging
---
Today I got to mess around with JSON ([See example for JSON]](https://json.org/example.html)), and in particular, the [Newtonsoft.JSON](https://www.fuget.org/packages/Newtonsoft.Json/13.0.1) package in C#/DOTNET. I've always used this package, but disliked working with it when compared to working with the key-value format in something more dynamic, such as Python.

To work through my compilation based bottleneck, I decided to finally try out the C# Interactive prompt, which allows you to run one-line (or multi-line) commands similar to how you would run things in a terminal. The syntax is compiled and ran in real time, which is really cool for a pre-compiled language like C#. So, no need to recompile my code and get to the point of execution every time.

Unfortunately, there was a bug with C# interactive that wouldn't let me import packages in the [nuget way](https://github.com/dotnet/interactive/blob/main/docs/nuget-overview.md), such as syntax using the documented syntax (e.g. `#r "nuget:System.Text.Json,4.7.2")`, but I was able to get Newtonsoft installed via the compiled package's `.dll` I had downloaded, so this worked:

```csharp
#r "C:\Users\Marc Ochsner\source\repos\TestProject\packages\Newtonsoft.Json.12.0.3\lib\net45\Newtonsoft.Json.dll"
```

And, well, it turns out this interactive mode was REALLY helpful. Not only did it let me quickly run my code, but it actually let me output these `JObjects` and display the type right alongside them.

So I made an Object:

```csharp
var jso1 = Newtonsoft.Json.Linq.JObject.Parse("{'a':['1',{'2':'2a'}]}");
```

Output it the key/value pairs:

```csharp
> Console.WriteLine(jso1);
{
  "a": [
    "1",
    {
      "2": "2a"
    }
  ]
}
```

And didn't want to type Console.Writeline every time, so I tried it without just to see what happened (would it be similar to Powershell??!)

```csharp
> jso1
JObject(1) { JProperty(1) { JArray(2) { [1], JObject(1) { JProperty(1) { [2a] } } } } }
```

...AND IT'S ALMOST LIKE I'M USING C# IN POWERSHELL MODE! :D Wonderful, so I have the types I was using for my development just written right there for me.

Here's a quick summary of what each maps to in JSON:

```csharp
// JObject
{ 
  // Jproperty
  "a":
  // JArray
  [
    // [Value]
    "1",
    // JObject
    {
      // JProperty
      "2": 
      // [Value]
      "2a"
    }
  ]
}
```

Hopefully this helped someone like it did me! Happy coding ya'll.

-Marc
