---
layout: post
title: "#100DaysOfCode - Day 95: Obsidian Plugin Contributions"
date: 2021-08-11
permalink: /100Days/:slug
categories:
  - 100Days
---

Since it's been a while focusing on work, I decided tonight to spend some time working on some open-source priorities of mine. I work largely with a productivity tool based in Markdown, and have found a lot of the plug-ins to be really useful. So, I've started getting involved with those plug-ins.

### Markdown tables
For starters, a few weeks ago I got involved with a dependency of an obsidian plugin: `md-advanced-tables`. 

The [new development](https://github.com/mochsner/md-advanced-tables/commit/83683146d0aa49a2b141c6e4bf9851ab5873bc62) I added was a feature in Markdown to "transpose" a table. 

A. Table

| H1  | H2  |
| --- | --- |
| 1-1 | 2-1 |
| 1-2 | 2-2 |

B. Transposed table

| H1  | 1-1 | 1-2 |
| --- | --- | --- |
| H2  | 2-1 | 2-2 |

It's not the prettiest code (in fact, I find it pretty bad), but it works perfectly, and quickly. I still need to submit the Pull Request, but I've been hesitant because I keep telling myself to clean it up a little. I probably really should find the time for it (also, pretty cool that this plugin has 80k+ downloads)

### Markdown checklist
Then, based on a plug-in I use very frequently, I decided to get more involved with a simle checklist application that I've really grown to love. It's owned and created by Delashum. Here's my [Pull Request](https://github.com/delashum/obsidian-checklist-plugin/pull/76/files) that documents some of the (strictly administrative) changes I started with - just mapping out what it takes to run and do custom development on this plug-in (this plugin is also pretty popular at 20k+ downloads)
