---
layout: post
title: "Goals for 2022"
date: 2021-01-03
share:
  - twitter
  - mastodon
---

In 2021, a lot changed. Newly married to Ann-Marie, we were gifted a wonderful daughter, Adora. And we bought a home, where we're able to establish some roots in Longcreek Plantation, Blythewood, SC.

Now phasing into the New Year, I've some time to reflect on things that are important to me. In looking forward for 2022, I want to make sure to prioritize some things for spiritual growth, some for physical growth, and some for mental growth.

For spiritual growth, I've done a good bit of reading in 2021 (particularly Timothy Keller), but I still feel like I'm lacking a little bit. I believe Jesus was alive, and thank Him for saving my life, but I don't understand fully how I can make Him proud, and live a life of servance. I want to serve, but I don't know how I can do that. I'm not good around people.

For physical growth, I've decided I want to learn how to play tennis (again). I haven't had a racket in 8 or so years, and haven't played since some time maybe in early college. Since then, I've broken my wrist, had surgury, and a few other injuries, so I need to find a racquet that I'm able to play with that doesn't give my wrist trouble. Additionally, I'm hoping to be able to spend some of the summer to learn to swim (freestyle), so that I can one day maybe do a triathlon.

For mental growth, I want to continue to learn how to be the best developer I can be, and become more of an advocate for open source, as well as privacy focused practices. I've been blessed to have been educated by great computer science professors than have instilled me with ethical principles, as well as classes that have shaped my perspecitve on technologies, but I think I could do more at using Open source technologies professionally. 

Then, in terms of mental health, I'm hoping to get involved with something in the community, or online, to help others through their own mental health issues. It's something near and dear to my heart (I've struggled with depression), and I really want to do what I can to learn how to help others, in the same way others have helped me. I was able to pay for help, but not everyone can afford that.

Goals: 
  - [ ] [Take Azure Developer Associate Exam](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/certifications/azure-developer/)
  - [ ] [Automate my Skarsta (3D printer)](https://hackaday.com/2019/01/23/motorizing-an-ikea-skarsta-table/)
  - [ ] Setup a home Media Station / NAS / Home server... since cloud costs add up, and I'll have fiber =)
  - [ ] Get involved with something for mental health in the community or online
  - [ ] Get involved with something volunteering for spiritual growth or otherwise
  - [ ] Learn to play tennis (again)
  - [ ] Learn to swim freestyle

P.S. Bitcoin is 13 years old today! 