---
layout: post
title: "Thanksgiving 2021"
date: 2021-11-25
share:
  - twitter
  - mastodon
---

I just wanted to take some time to write about how undeserving I am of what I have come to know these last few years. 

I'm now 27 years old, and I have a beautiful wife, daughter, and family. I have a mom, brother, father, and extended family who love me and support me through pretty much anything - including times of depression, anxiety, self-doubt, and self-hate. I have enough financial stability in my current job to know that I'll be alright if everything came crashing down for one reason or another, and that makes my day-to-day - whilst tiring - quite optimal as someone with anxiety.

I really struggled in late high school and college with finding who I was, so I floundered, used substances, and tried to copy others. Thankfully, I hit rock bottom relatively quickly, and after doing so, and admitting how much I hated it to a therapist, my mom, dad, and brother - I was encouraged to change. I took a semester off school, and was able to figure it out whilst programming at a reasonable paid internship in the Columbia SC area. I got that internship through a classmate named Buck, and those 2 years at Schneider Electric really helped me escape from a mucky past and mistakes growing up, especially that semester. I got to read, a lot, in my semester off, and learn what it meant to be genuine, and find purpose (happiness). In terms of time invested into something for my well being as a human, there was very little more valuable than that semester where I got to read and learn about how I want to live a purpose driven life. I also happened to find something I was good at: programming.

Through all those struggles, I decided to quit drinking - a temporary pleasure that does little for long-term health and happiness. I already quit nicotine, but at this point I quit everything (though I will admit that I came back to tea, and even coffee...). 

If you know my past, friends, and family growing up, as well as the culture in the U.S., you'd understand that quitting drinking might be really hard to do. Drinking is in large part synonymized with growing up in Hilton Head Island, and my family hasn't quite escaped that lifestyle on the island. Well, regardless, my family supported me and encouraged me to stay sober - my brother stuck up for me around his friends, and my parents told me how proud they were of me, and I think they even took breaks with me. I didn't feel particularly proud of myself at the time, but their encouragement and pride in seeing my improve helped me become more comfortable with it, and for saying no around some friends.

<!-- There were many friends I lost touch with, but in large part, it was due to a lack of time. I went back to school for my last semester, adding a math minor, enrolling in 9 hours of online and in-person courses over the summer, met my wife interning, and then enrolled in 26 credits the next semester due to an added mathematics minor. While those credits kept me from being the boyfriend of the year that first semester we met, it also gave me a strong appreciation of math and learning. I made up for things to Ann-Marie later, I hope? 

My last semester after that, Ann-Marie encouraged me to take a job at a healthcare job up in Wisconsin as a Systems Engineer. I wanted to stay in my role as a web developer (intern), but she made a case and point for it, and I went. It definitely wasn't my favorite job in the world, but I learned the value of a career that felt like it had purpose - I was helping improve things for people in healthcare (atleast in part).  -->

Then, after some 







