---
layout: post
title: "Some Reading and Reflection on 2023"
date: 2024-01-01
share:
  - twitter
  - mastodon
---

Wow, I really need to update my blog to make it more likely for me to post here. Anyhow, this year was different, atleast in terms of reading. I haven't really been able to read for "fun" a whole lot, but I've still really enjoyed reading the books I've been able to.

It was a great year filled with many positive changes -- my wife starting a new in-person job, moving into software development contracting myself, exploring my faith, and of course my daughter learning faster than I can keep track of (She is almost 3 years old, and reading books with her has become probably my favorite activity).

That said, I've been avoiding taking the time for myself and read, probably due to lack of energy/motivation. Life can be tiring. Still, I really enjoyed reading them (even if I _was_ more tired the next day :P)

- Prayer: Experience Awe and Intimacy with God | Timothy Keller
- Hidden Christmas: The Surprising Truth Behind the Birth of Christ | Timothy Keller
- The Prodigal Prophet | Timothy Keller
- When-Breath-Becomes Air | Paul-Kalanithi

Partially finished books

- NgBook 2 | Murray, Coury, Lerner, Taborda
- The Meaning of Marriage: Facing the Complexities of Commitment with the Wisdom of God | Timothy Keller + Kathy
- The Every Day Parenting Toolkit | Alan E. Kazdin *
- Engineering Management for the Rest of Us | Sarah Drasner *
- Deep Work | Cal Newport

Then, some habits I tried to set:

- The Bible in One Year | Nicky Gumbell
  - ...too much commitment so I stopped about 1/4 of the way through
- M'Cheynes Bible reading plan
- Going to the YMCA gym
- More frequent Pickleball!!

### Reflection / Winners

### Ethos (appealed most to Ethics)

The Prodigal Prophet was an old testament based book (Jonah) that I thought was very well articulated. It drew parallels between Jonah and Jesus, and overall I think helped us to see that there may be times we're called to do something that we don't fully believe in, but that are for the best. As Christians, we represent Jesus, and should abide by the Golden rule. This is done by being vulnerable and turning the other cheek. There was some overlay between the callings that Jonah had, what they mean, and Dietrich Bonhoeffer's book for sure (but also not - as it was an entirely different culture... okay maybe scratch that?)

### Logos (appealed most to Logic)

Engineering Management for the rest of us made a lot of very good points about successful teams. This is a book I wish I had read before unwittingly being thrown into a team leadership role for half a year in 2022. The #1 thing for a team is trust, and as a leader, it's your job to instill trust.


### Pathos (appealed most to Emotion)

*Prayer | Timothy Keller*

I don't like prayer. It's always seemed way too mystical, too emotional, and felt a bit like hullabaloo to me. Part of this might be because of "prayer warrior" types I grew up around with, another part being the fact that I felt there was a lot in our control that we should take on ourselves. Well, turns out that's just because of an adult around me who has a historically heavy burden that keeps them from taking on too much of their own responsibility, or weight. Which is hard, because when things fail, you can't hold that weight. And things always fail. 

Anyways, I always thought - why would "God" just do all the work for me? Well, from reading this book, it turns out - he won't. Prayer isn't a "let go and let God". It's a way to navigate life and figure out the best path for you, to _trust_ Him, and to make the best of every given circumstance or situation that you are put in. It's finding the positive in the negative, because I'm there and I AM the one who can, with help. 

Prayer is a wrestling with God, or, in a way, your inner conscience. Prayer requires meditation, and reading in scripture as well as even the medium or topic in mind. The book by Timothy Keller on Prayer did a lot to help me realize the value in prayer, but... I'll admit, it hasn't done a lot to get me to actually partake in a very strong daily habit. After reading the book, I've tried doing M'Cheynes bible reading plan (30+ mins a day), and really, as a dad, it's just too much. At the end of the day, I want to get into journaling as prayer, and I want to continue reading and undestanding the Bible (which is very nuanced and interpreted poorly) -- jotting down my notes and reflecting on them with others. But first, I need a group to motivate me to take notes and reflect on them. I can't go it alone - and the Bible often does call for community for this as well. 

*When your Breath becomes Air | Kalanithi*

I think it was early year when I read this one, but I recall it being extremely sad, and was a great reminder that life is not promised - for us or our friends. There were a lot of aspects in this book that I feel like were relateable to the human experience in terms of ego as well (atleast for me). It also made me think about how I'd be leaving my family if I were to die or become terminally ill, of course. I don't recall things 100% (I'll have to read it again someday), but it made me sort of sad as the guy didn't seem ready to die... not that any of us are, but seeing it in a novel was a unique experience. The fear was subtle, but the fact that it was seemingly unintentional made it very real to me. Great, but very sad, book.